[Music]
hi
i'm benjamina for bbc good food and
today i'm going to show you how to make
the easiest
mince pies for my stir up sundae feature
in the christmas 2020 magazine
let's get started so the first thing we
need to do is just get all our
ingredients in our saucepan
and we start with our dried fruit and
i've got a mix of sultanas currants
and raisins
[Music]
and then i've got some sewer and you can
use beef sewer or vegetarian or vegan
doesn't matter
and then in goes our dark masculine
sugar
and some mixed peel
and then our spices and i'm using
cinnamon and mixed spice but you can use
nutmeg or cloves
or a mix of all of them
[Music]
and then all you need to do is turn on
the heat and let that simmer for about
seven to ten minutes
[Music]
so give it a little stir to get
everything incorporated and combined
and then let it bubble away for about
seven to ten minutes
add the zest of one lemon
and then the juice of the lemon goes in
as well
i've got some chopped apples here i just
use bramley you can use any cooking
apple that you like
and that just goes straight into the pan
with the other ingredients or about
halfway through
[Music]
so once all the sugar and sewer has
dissolved and your fruits are nice and
plump
just take it off the heat and then you
can stir in your brandy
so once you've stirred in your brandy
you want to set this aside and let it
cool to room temperature
before putting it into your pastry cases
or you can pour it into sterilized jars
and use it as gifts and it will keep for
a few months
so now we can move on to our pastry and
i've just preheated my oven to
180 fan and now we're going to start
making our
dough so i've got some plain flour in a
bowl
and i'm going to add to that some cubed
cold
butter
[Music]
and also a pinch of salt
and then all you need to do is rub the
butter together
into the flour with your fingertips
so you want to keep going until you've
not got any large lumps of butter in
your mixture
you want it to look quite fine like
horse sand so the next step for our
pastry is just to stir in our sugar
[Music]
and then all you need to do at this
point is start squeezing it together
until it comes
into a ball just
squeeze it inside the bowl and
eventually it will all
come together so it's going to feel
quite dry this is more like a shortbread
consistency
so don't be tempted to add any extra
liquid
and then once that's come together in
one mask just turn it out onto your
surface
and give it a really brief knead
[Music]
so once that's come together into one
bowl you can either wrap this up put it
in the fridge and chill it to use for
later
or you can make mince pies straight away
which is what we're going to do now
so once your pastry is done all we need
to do now is put it in
the cases so with this dough you just
need to
grab off about a walnut size piece
for the base form it into a little ball
and then just press it into the base of
the tin
so if you're someone who's a little bit
nervous about pastry this is a good one
because there's no rolling out
you just roll and press and try to make
it as even as possible
and get it up to the edges of the tin
and then just repeat that for 18 holes
[Music]
so i've filled a 12-hole cupcake tray
and this recipe does make 18 so you can
bake these off and do another six more
afterwards but now i'm just going to
fill them with a bit of minced meat
so this mince meat is my recipe for my
stir up sunday feature
and stir up sunday is a great day to
make everything in advance giving it
time to mature
in time for christmas so i'm just going
to put a spoonful of mincemeat into each
case
[Music]
do
so next we are going to put the lids on
our mince pies
so again you just want to grab a small
piece in your hands
roll it so it comes together and this
time just
flatten it a little bit to give you a
lid shape
and then that just goes straight on to
the new spike
and then you can try and just seal the
edges
and it's fine if it's a little bit
crumbly on top
gives it that rustic charm as long as
it's covered
it's all good and then just repeat that
for all the mince pies
[Music]
so the lids are on and now all we need
to do is brush them with a little egg
[Music]
so these go into the oven to bake for
about 20 minutes until the tops are nice
and golden brown
[Music]
so the mince pies are baked and are
golden brown and are ready to come out
of the oven
[Music]
so these i've had about 10 to 15 minutes
just to cool down so i can actually
touch them
i'm going to just place them on the
cooling rack to cool completely for
about another 15 minutes
so there you have it my really easy stir
up sundae
mince pies why not give it a go for
yourself this christmas
and tag us on instagram at bbc good food
so we can see
all of your creations